Blog post for Jenkins Contributor Summit and FOSDEM (#7128)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2024/02/2024-02-26-jenkins-contributor-summit-and-fosdem-recap.adoc

The Contributor Summit then concluded with a two hour group coding session, where attendees were encouraged to work with other members of the summit to work on any of the topics that were discussed prior.
This provided an opportunity for people to work directly with one another, which would otherwise be impossible due to how far the Jenkins community stretches.
Work that would typically be done asynchronously was instead immediately possible thanks to the proximity of the contributors.

image:/images/post-images/2024/02/26/group-coding-session.jpg[The group coding session to end the contributor summit, where attendees were able to connect and work directly with each other.,width=839,height=631]

Now, with the Contributor Summit wrapped up, we shifted focus to FOSDEM and the rest of the weekend.

This year's FOSDEM conference was as busy as ever!

image:/images/post-images/2024/02/26/damien-stephane-booth.jpg[Damien Duportal and Stephane Merle converse with guests to the Jenkins booth at FOSDEM.,width=839,height=631]

> The Jenkins booth saw tons of visitors over the two days, and we even sold out of most of our t-shirts!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkins booth saw tons of visitors over the two days, and we even sold out most of our t-shirts!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins Contributor Summit and FOSDEM Recap"
tags:
- contributor-summit
- fosdem
- events
- community
authors:
- kmartens27
sig: docs
description: >
  Jenkins Contributor Summit and FOSDEM recap and takeaways.
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2024/02/26/contributor-summit-group-photo.jpg
---

> The previous in-person Jenkins Contributor Summit took place in 2020, just prior to the lockdowns and precautions that would change the world as a whole.
> However, on February 2, 2024, just prior to this year's FOSDEM conference, we were able to gather in Brussels so that we could have an in-person Jenkins Contributor Summit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous in-person Jenkins Contributor Summit took place in 2020, just prior to the lockdowns and precautions that would change the world.
Thankfully, on February 2, 2024, just prior to this year's FOSDEM conference, we were able to gather again, in Brussels, so that we could have an in-person Jenkins Contributor Summit.
```

Next up was author:timja[Tim Jacomb], the Release Officer, shared the successes and innovation that the project has experienced throughout 2023.

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/tim-release-update.jpg[Tim Jacomb reviews the Jenkins release updates over 2023 and hopes for 2024.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

After Tim wrapped up his section of the presentation, author:kmartens27[Kevin Martens], the Documentation Officer, shared what we hope 2024 will look like for Jenkins documentation and Jenkins.io.

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/kevin-docs-update.jpg[Kevin Martens shares insight into what to look for in documentation for 2024.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

As the Advocacy & Outreach SIG leader, author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong] then recapped all of the events that Jenkins held or participated in during 2023.

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/alyssa-advocacy-update.jpg[Alyssa Tong recaps the events and successes of Jenkins' community.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

She also shared the exciting news that Jenkins has recently been won the Most Innovative DevOps Open Source Project award from DevOps Dozen

> image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/devops-award-group.jpg[Group photo of all the contributor summit attendees.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

Reviewer 2: This image didn't display for me
![image](https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/assets/101582594/564db77a-d3cf-4a59-97e6-3c85a83190e5)

Following Alyssa, author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier], the Security Officer, reviewed the successes that the Jenkins Security team had over the last year.
Wadeck also outlined tooling additions and changes to Jenkins that will help determine vulnerabilities and issues.

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/wadeck-security-update.jpg[Wadeck Follonier reviews the statistics for Jenkins security in 2023.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

> Tim Jacomb then took the stage once again to provide insights on the User Experience of Jenkins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tim Jacomb then took the stage once again to provide insights on the user experience of Jenkins.
```

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/basil-api-usage-demo.jpg[Basil Crow demonstrates why tracking API usage in plugins is important and what it can help with.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

The presentation itself reviewed what the API usage might include, why it is helpful to perform this search, why migrations should be managed, and why empathy is a core value when it comes to development and engineering.

The Contributor Summit then concluded with a two hour group coding session, where attendees were encouraged to work with other members of the summit to work on any of the topics that were discussed prior.
This provided an opportunity for people to work directly with one another, which would otherwise be impossible due to how far the Jenkins community stretches.
Work that would typically be done asynchronously was instead immediately possible thanks to the proximity of the contributors.

image::/images/post-images/2024/02/26/group-coding-session.jpg[The group coding session to end the contributor summit, where attendees were able to connect and work directly with each other.,width=839,height=631,align=center]

> The presentation slide deck can be found at link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tbsjqtA20yVxLhFSkCFVLyOzd2u6ucFmV2IME_Igf5c/edit?usp=sharing[this link].

Reviewer 2: I'd put this at the start of the article so it's easier to find.
